# 15.6 The Thyristor

The current–voltage characteristics are shown in Figure 11.22. Devices can be designed to minimize the parasitic or distributed base–emitter resistance to minimize this problem.

## 15.6.1 The Thyristor

One of the important applications of electronic devices is in switching between an off or blocking state to an on or low-impedance state. Thyristor is the name given to a general class of semiconductor pnpn switching devices that exhibit bistable regenerative switching characteristics. We have considered the transistor, which may be switched on with the application of a base drive or a gate voltage. The base drive or gate voltage must be applied as long as the transistor is to remain on. There are a number of applications in which it is useful to have a device remain in a blocking state until switched to the low-impedance state by a control signal, which then does not necessarily have to remain on. These devices are efficient in switching large currents at low frequencies, such as industrial control circuits operating at 60 Hz.

A Semiconductor Controlled Rectifier (SCR) is the common name given to a three-terminal thyristor. The SCR (sometimes referred to as a silicon controlled rectifier) is a four-layer pnpn structure with a gate control terminal. As with most semiconductor devices, there are several variations of the device structure. We consider the basic SCR operation and limitations, and then discuss some variations of the basic four-layer device.

### 15.6.1 The Basic Characteristics

The four-layer pnpn structure is shown in Figure 15.29a. The upper p region is called the anode and the lower n region is called the cathode. If a positive voltage is applied to the anode, the device is said to be forward biased. However, the junction \( J_2 \) is reverse biased so that only a very small current exists. If a negative voltage is applied to the anode, then junctions \( J_1 \) and \( J_3 \) are reverse biased—again only a very small current will exist. Figure 15.29b shows the I–V characteristics for these conditions. The voltage \( V_B \) is the breakdown voltage of the \( J_2 \) junction. For properly designed devices, the blocking voltage can be several thousand volts.

To consider the characteristics of the device as it goes into its conducting state, we can model the structure as coupled npn and pnp bipolar transistors. Figure 15.30a shows how we can split the four-layer structure and Figure 15.30b shows the two-transistor equivalent circuit with the associated currents. Since the base of the pnp device is the same as the collector of the npn transistor, the base current \( I_{B1} \) must in fact be the same as the collector current \( I_{C2} \). Similarly, since the collector of the pnp transistor is the same as the base of the npn device, the collector current \( I_{C1} \) must be the same as the base current \( I_{B2} \). In this bias configuration, the B–C of the pnp and the B–C of the npn devices are reverse biased, while the B–E junctions are both forward biased. The parameters \( \alpha_1 \) and \( \alpha_2 \) are the common base current gains of the pnp and npn transistors, respectively.