# 11.5.3 Hot-Electron Charging Effects

We have considered breakdown voltage effects in a MOSFET. In particular, as the electric field in the drain junction space charge region increases, electron–hole pairs can be generated by impact ionization. The generated electrons tend to be swept to the drain and generated holes swept into the substrate in an n-channel MOSFET.

Some of the electrons generated in the space charge region are attracted to the oxide due to the electric field induced by a positive gate voltage; this effect is shown in Figure 11.35. These generated electrons have energies far greater than the thermal-equilibrium value and are called hot electrons. If the electrons have energies on the order of 1.5 eV, they may be able to tunnel into the oxide; or in some cases they may be able to overcome the silicon oxide potential barrier and produce a gate current, which may be in the range of femtoamperes (fA) \( (10^{-15} \, \text{A}) \) or perhaps picoamperes (pA) \( (10^{-12} \, \text{A}) \). A fraction of the electrons traveling through the oxide may be trapped, producing a net negative charge density in the oxide. The probability of electron trapping is usually less than that of hole trapping; but a hot-electron-induced gate current may exist over a long period of time, therefore the negative charging effect may build up. The negative oxide charge trapping will cause a local positive shift in the threshold voltage.

The energetic electrons, as they cross the Si–SiO\(_2\) interface, can generate additional interface states. The probable cause of interface state generation is due to the breaking up of silicon-hydrogen bonds—a dangling silicon bond is produced, which acts as an interface state. The charge trapping in interface states causes a shift in threshold voltage, additional surface scattering, and reduced mobility. The hot-electron charging effects are continuous processes, so the device degrades over a period of time. This degradation is obviously an undesirable effect and may tend to limit the useful life of the device. We have discussed the lightly doped drain (LDD) structure in Section 11.4.2. The maximum electric field is reduced in this device, decreasing the probability of impact ionization and hot-electron effects.

!Figure 11.35

**Figure 11.35** | Hot carrier generation, current components, and electron injection into the oxide.