# 15.6 The Thyristor

where \( I_{C01} \) and \( I_{C02} \) are the reverse B–C junction saturation currents in the two devices. In this particular configuration, \( I_A = I_K \) and \( I_{C1} + I_{C2} = I_A \). If we add Equations (15.11a) and (15.11b), we obtain

\[
I_{C1} + I_{C2} = I_A = (\alpha_1 + \alpha_2) I_A + I_{C01} + I_{C02}
\]

The anode current \( I_A \), from Equation (15.12), can be found as

\[
I_A = \frac{I_{C01} + I_{C02}}{1 - (\alpha_1 + \alpha_2)}
\]

As long as \( \alpha_1 + \alpha_2 \) is much smaller than unity, the anode current is small, as we have indicated in Figure 15.29b.

The common base current gains, \( \alpha_1 \) and \( \alpha_2 \), are very strong functions of collector current as we discussed in Chapter 12. For small values of \( V_A \), the collector current in each device is just the reverse saturation current, which is very small. The small collector current implies that both \( \alpha_1 \) and \( \alpha_2 \) are much smaller than unity. The four-layer structure maintains this blocking condition until the junction \( J_2 \) starts into breakdown or until a current is induced in the \( J_2 \) junction by some external means.

Consider, initially, the condition when the applied anode voltage is sufficiently large to cause the \( J_2 \) junction to start into avalanche breakdown. This effect is shown in Figure 15.31a. The electrons generated by impact ionization are swept into the \( n_1 \) region, making the \( n_1 \) region more negative, and the holes generated by impact ionization are swept into the \( p_2 \) region, making the \( p_2 \) region more positive. The more negative voltage of the \( n_1 \) region and the more positive voltage of the \( p_2 \) region means that the forward-bias junction voltages \( V_1 \) and \( V_3 \) both increase. The increase in the respective B–E junction voltages causes an increase in current, which results in an increase in the common-base current gains \( \alpha_1 \) and \( \alpha_2 \), causing a further increase in

!Figure 15.31

**Figure 15.31** (a) The pnpn device when the \( J_2 \) junction starts into avalanche breakdown. (b) The junction voltages in the pnpn structure when the device is in the high-current, low-impedance state.

|   |   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| + \( V_1 \) | - |   | + \( V_3 \) | - |   |
| \( p_1 \) | \( n_1 \) | \( p_2 \) | \( n_2 \) |   |   |
| \( J_1 \) | \( J_2 \) | \( J_3 \) |   |   |   |
| \( V_A \) |   |   |   |   |   |
| \( I_A \) |   |   |   |   |   |

(a)

|   |   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| + \( V_1 \) | - | - \( V_2 \) | + | + \( V_3 \) | - |
| \( p_1 \) | \( n_1 \) | \( p_2 \) | \( n_2 \) |   |   |
| \( J_1 \) | \( J_2 \) | \( J_3 \) |   |   |   |
| \( V_A \) |   |   |   |   |   |
| \( I_A \) |   |   |   |   |   |

(b)