# 1.7 Growth of Semiconductor Materials

The crystal orientation. The flat is perpendicular to the [110] direction or indicates the (110) plane. (See Figure 1.21b.) This then allows the individual chips to be fabricated along given crystal planes so that the chips can be sawed apart more easily. The boule is then sliced into wafers. The wafer must be thick enough to mechanically support itself. A mechanical two-sided lapping operation produces a flat wafer of uniform thickness. Since the lapping procedure can leave a surface damaged and contaminated by the mechanical operation, the surface must be removed by chemical etching. The final step is polishing. This provides a smooth surface on which devices may be fabricated or further growth processes may be carried out. This final semiconductor wafer is called the substrate material.

## 1.7.2 Epitaxial Growth

A common and versatile growth technique that is used extensively in device and integrated circuit fabrication is epitaxial growth. **Epitaxial growth** is a process whereby a thin, single-crystal layer of material is grown on the surface of a single-crystal substrate. In the epitaxial process, the single-crystal substrate acts as the seed, although the process takes place far below the melting temperature. When an epitaxial layer is grown on a substrate of the same material, the process is termed **homoepitaxy**. Growing silicon on a silicon substrate is one example of a homoepitaxy process. At present, a great deal of work is being done with **heteroepitaxy**. In a heteroepitaxy process, although the substrate and epitaxial materials are not the same, the two crystal structures should be very similar if single-crystal growth is to be obtained and if a large number of defects are to be avoided at the epitaxial–substrate interface. Growing epitaxial layers of the ternary alloy AlGaAs on a GaAs substrate is one example of a heteroepitaxy process.

One epitaxial growth technique that has been used extensively is called **chemical vapor-phase deposition (CVD)**. Silicon epitaxial layers, for example, are grown on silicon substrates by the controlled deposition of silicon atoms onto the surface from a chemical vapor containing silicon. In one method, silicon tetrachloride reacts with hydrogen at the surface of a heated substrate. The silicon atoms are released in the reaction and can be deposited onto the substrate, while the other chemical reactant, HCl, is in gaseous form and is swept out of the reactor. A sharp demarcation between the impurity doping in the substrate and in the epitaxial layer can be achieved using the CVD process. This technique allows great flexibility in the fabrication of semiconductor devices.

**Liquid-phase epitaxy** is another epitaxial growth technique. A compound of the semiconductor with another element may have a melting temperature lower than that of the semiconductor itself. The semiconductor substrate is held in the liquid compound and, since the temperature of the melt is lower than the melting temperature of the substrate, the substrate does not melt. As the solution is slowly cooled, a single-crystal semiconductor layer grows on the seed crystal. This technique, which occurs at a lower temperature than the Czochralski method, is useful in growing group III–V compound semiconductors.

A versatile technique for growing epitaxial layers is the **molecular beam epitaxy (MBE)** process. A substrate is held in vacuum at a temperature normally in the range...