# Chapter 14: Optical Devices

Electron–hole pairs are generated in the space charge region by photon absorption, as we have discussed previously. The photon-generated electrons and holes now generate additional electron–hole pairs through impact ionization. The avalanche photodiode now has a current gain introduced by the avalanche multiplication factor.

The electron–hole pairs generated by photon absorption and by impact ionization are swept out of the space charge region very quickly. If the saturation velocity is \(10^7 \, \text{cm/s}\) in a depletion region that is \(10 \, \mu\text{m}\) wide, then the transit time is

\[
\tau_t = \frac{10^7}{10 \times 10^4} = 100 \, \text{ps}
\]

The period of a modulation signal would be \(2\pi \tau_t\), so that the frequency would be

\[
f = \frac{1}{2\pi \tau_t} = \frac{1}{200 \times 10^{-12}} = 5 \, \text{GHz}
\]

If the avalanche photodiode current gain is 20, then the gain-bandwidth product is 100 GHz. The avalanche photodiode could respond to light waves modulated at microwave frequencies.

## 14.3.5 Phototransistor

A bipolar transistor can also be used as a photodetector. The phototransistor can have high gain through the transistor action. An npn bipolar phototransistor is shown in Figure 14.20a. This device has a large base–collector junction area and is usually operated with the base open circuited. Figure 14.20b shows the block diagram of the phototransistor. Electrons and holes generated in the reverse-biased B–C junction are swept out of the space charge region, producing a photocurrent \(I_L\). Holes are swept

!Figure 14.20

**Figure 14.20** (a) A bipolar phototransistor. (b) Block diagram of the open-base phototransistor.