# CHAPTER 11 Metal–Oxide–Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor: Additional Concepts

!Figure 11.23

**Figure 11.23** (a) Cross section of the n-channel MOSFET. (b) Equivalent circuit including the parasitic bipolar transistor.

n-type source and drain contacts along with the p-type substrate. The source and body are at ground potential. The n(source)-p(substrate)-n(drain) structure also forms a parasitic bipolar transistor. The equivalent circuit is shown in Figure 11.23b.

Figure 11.24a shows the device when avalanche breakdown is just beginning in the space charge region near the drain. We tend to think of the avalanche breakdown suddenly occurring at a particular voltage. However, avalanche breakdown is a gradual process that starts at low current levels and for electric fields somewhat below the breakdown field. The electrons generated by the avalanche process flow into the drain and contribute to the drain current. The avalanche-generated holes generally flow through the substrate to the body terminal. Since the substrate has a nonzero resistance, a voltage drop is produced as shown. This potential difference drives the source-to-substrate pn junction into forward bias near the source terminal. The source is heavily doped n-type; thus, a large number of electrons can be injected from the source contact into the substrate under forward bias. This process becomes

!Figure 11.24

**Figure 11.24** (a) Substrate current–induced voltage drop caused by avalanche multiplication at the drain. (b) Currents in the parasitic bipolar transistor.