# 13.1 JFET Concepts

Device, majority carrier electrons flow between the source and drain terminals. The source is the terminal from which carriers enter the channel from the external circuit, the drain is the terminal where carriers leave, or are drained from, the device, and the gate is the control terminal. The two gate terminals shown in Figure 13.2 are tied together to form a single gate connection. Since majority carrier electrons are primarily involved in the conduction in this n-channel transistor, the JFET is a majority-carrier device.

A complementary p-channel JFET can also be fabricated in which the p and n regions are reversed from those of the n-channel device. Holes will flow in the p-type channel between source and drain and the source terminal will now be the source of the holes. The current direction and voltage polarities in the p-channel JFET are the reverse of those in the n-channel device. The p-channel JFET is generally a lower frequency device than the n-channel JFET due to the lower hole mobility.

Figure 13.3a shows an n-channel pn JFET with zero volts applied to the gate. If the source is at ground potential, and if a small positive drain voltage is applied, a drain current \( I_D \) is produced between the source and drain terminals. The n channel is essentially a resistance so the \( I_D \) versus \( V_{DS} \) characteristic, for small \( V_{DS} \) values, is approximately linear, as shown in the figure.

When we apply a voltage to the gate of a pn JFET with respect to the source and drain, we alter the channel conductance. If a negative voltage is applied to the gate of the n-channel pn JFET shown in Figure 13.3, the gate-to-channel pn junction becomes reverse biased. The space charge region now widens so the channel region becomes narrower and the resistance of the n channel increases. The slope of the \( I_D \) versus \( V_{DS} \) curve, for small \( V_{DS} \), decreases. These effects are shown in Figure 13.3b. If a larger negative gate voltage is applied, the condition shown in Figure 13.3c can be achieved. The reverse-biased gate-to-channel space charge region has completely filled the channel region. This condition is known as **pinch-off**. The drain current at pinch-off is essentially zero, since the depletion region isolates the source and drain terminals. Figure 13.3c shows the \( I_D \) versus \( V_{DS} \) curve for this case, as well as the other two cases.

The current in the channel is controlled by the gate voltage. The control of the current in one part of the device by a voltage in another part of the device is the basic transistor action. This device is a normally on or **depletion mode** device, which means that a voltage must be applied to the gate terminal to turn the device off.

Now consider the situation in which the gate voltage is held at zero volts, \( V_{GS} = 0 \), and the drain voltage changes. Figure 13.4a is a replica of Figure 13.3a for zero gate voltage and a small drain voltage. As the drain voltage increases (positive), the gate-to-channel pn junction becomes reverse biased near the drain terminal so that the space charge region extends further into the channel. The channel is essentially a resistor, and the effective channel resistance increases as the space charge region widens; therefore, the slope of the \( I_D \) versus \( V_{DS} \) characteristic decreases as shown in Figure 13.4b. The effective channel resistance now varies along the channel length and, since the channel current must be constant, the voltage drop through the channel becomes dependent on position.